##Theo Styles##

I would have never imagined at the start of the project we would have the software we do today. The project seemed highly ambitious at the time, but with hard work and determination, we developed a very useful and sophisticated piece of software. I have thoroughly enjoyed working with the team and have learned a great deal about both Java and CPU architecture concepts along the way. My main role in the project was to develop the CPU visualisation, which shows the block diagram of a R3000 processor and the movement of data through it.

In the first week, I created story-boards to demonstrate how the UI would look along with the layout of different components. This allowed us to have a solid base for the UI layout along with how the user would perform various actions and how the UI would change to reflect this. I also created the schedule for the project using a tool called Wrike, this allowed us to easily allocate time and people for different sections of the project. 

I then started creation of a basic CPU block diagram using JavaFX, this was created in a separate branch on git and allowed me to work efficiently without affecting other team member’s code. Once the basic blocks were created, I started to link each component together with various wires for example connecting the ALU with the registers. Once the basic layout was created along with the simulation, I started to link the two together using the message passing system, implementing animations for separate instructions such as branches and jumps. This required research on the data paths of various instructions and allowed me to learn a lot more about how a CPU actually executes a program at a low level. Once the animations were implemented I quickly realised the block diagram needed to be extended to support operations such as branching. Due to the nature of the design this was done extremely quickly, and adding additional components such as the multiplexer was trivial.

Working as a team has been very beneficial and I feel each person has worked extremely well. Each person has worked on aspects they prefer and specialise in, which has allowed the project to develop quickly and efficiently. Using tools such as Slack has also been very useful and has allowed the team to communicate much more clearly. I have learnt a great deal from looking at various team members coding methods, such as the double colon notation, along with issues between threads and the best way to deal with them.

Overall, I have greatly enjoyed working in a team as well as on a large project such as Simulizer. I had never worked with a team on such a large project before and it has been an amazing experience working with everyone as well as a great learning experience. 