##Michael Oultram##

I came into team project thinking that I'd prefer to code alone, but leave wondering how I'll ever manage to code without a team. From the beginning this project seemed rather ambitious and definitely something that I wouldn't have tackled alone. My role within the project is to act as the 'glue' between the simulation and the visualisation. While this did mean that I got to work on many different sections of the project, a lot of these sections were a collaboration.

In the first week, Matt and Kelsey created a prototype of the modular UI. I expanded this prototype into the fully featured modular UI we have today. The underlying code structure of the Internal Windows was changed for greater control like automatically resizing the Internal Window and to make it easier for other parts of the application access these Internal Windows. I used this new code structure to create some of the more basic Internal Windows like the Registers, Program I/O and Help Windows.

I also added some features that the original UI prototype did not have, mainly layouts, settings and themes. Layouts took me multiple weeks to get working correctly but fortunately I could work on this feature in a different branch. This stopped everyone having to work with my broken code whilst I'm trying to develop it. Putting each feature in a branch allowed for me to easily switch between different parts of the application, and to priorities what features/bugs fixes were most important at the time.

During one week of the project, I was assigned to bug fixes and performance enhancements. In this week, I spent a lot of time looking at how threads were being used throughout the project. In a few places in the project, threads were not being used optimally. For example, the CPU Visualisation would create 21 threads everytime the window was opened and these threads were never closed. I created a partial fix for this, which Theo fully fixed later on.

Kelsey wrote the visual code for the High Level visualisations. Because he needed to see the visualisations to write the visual code, he just linked it to the annotations in a very quick and easy way. When looking at the threading issues of the project, I realised that this was a bottleneck and so I designed and implemented a better solution. This better solution involved using an MVC pattern, such that the annotations use the model, and when this model changes, the visualisation (or the view) is updated. I designed it in a way that allows us to view multiple visualisations at the same time. More importantly this new design allows for the visualisations to be opened midway through a program execution, and the visualisation would be in the correct place. In addition, the new solution solved some of the threading issues that we were previously experiencing.

I found working in a team quite beneficial in some circumstances. For example, I've had some code that I've written refactored to use the new double colon notation (something I wouldn't have known about otherwise). Team members are also a great way to test my code works, as I'm quickly notified if I've broken anything or if I could write something in a better way and I'd like to think I have returned the favour with some of the thread optimisations that I performed.
