##Charlie Street##

Throughout this project, I have had the opportunity to take on challenges that prior to this project I never would have thought I would have completed. Firstly, 11 weeks ago I would never have considered having the software we ended with; I am incredibly proud of what the 5 of us have achieved over the past 10 weeks and I hope the software reflects the hard work put into it. Personally, throughout the development of this project, my main role has been to develop the simulation that is central to the back end of the system (with respect to the brief, the algorithm, if you will). 

In the early stages of the project I had an active role in designing the system, creating UML diagrams for the back end of the system and also providing the user persona for the system, giving the team a detailed insight into the users we were actually making Simulizer for. The design of the simulation was a task I spent a lot of time on. This design was crucial as it would determine how the entire back end would work, and so it needed to be as clean and usable as possible. The difficulty and importance of this meant the design required multiple iterations to get right, but by the end it resulted in a design which was reasonably easy and simple to implement.

Carrying out the task of writing the simulation required me to know in detail about the processor, so as well as being able to write such a simulation in the first place, it required me to really understand how the processor works. The coding of this simulator required me to be fairly faithful to what I was implementing, including the part of the simulator I am most proud of which is the pipeline. This required very careful thought to get right. One of the most important design points of this simulator was that it had to be compliant with other simulators, and thankfully, I think this has been achieved.

As well as developing the simulation, I also played a key role in the writing of the documentation of the system, having written many sections for the original specification as well as the final report and test report (I wrote large numbers of unit tests, as well as carrying out the integration testing, and organising the user testing). I also wrote most of the general content and slides for the final presentation.

Reflecting on the work of us as a team, as well as being efficient in the development, I believe we have worked really well, playing off each other's strengths in order to ensure the right person was always assigned to do a certain section/ part of the project. Additionally, I think as a team we have got on really well together and it has been a pleasure to work with everyone over the last 10/11 weeks.

To summarise, this project has lead me to personally stretch myself in my abilities. I didn't think that at the start of the semester I would have written a simulation for a CPU as part of a project like Simulizer. This has been the largest project I have ever completed, and the longest time I have ever spent working in a team, and I can honestly say that I have enjoyed the process of creating and developing Simulizer, with all its difficulties, very much.
