#Summary#
After discussing Simulizer in depth throughout the contents of this report, it is worth now summarising, looking back as to what Simulizer is, what it's aims are, how the creation of the software has been achieved, and the success of the project as a whole.

At its finished state, Simulizer is a large piece of software that, in the most basic sense, simulates and visualises the operations of a MIPS R3000 processor. Simulizer provides multiple levels of visualisation: lower level visualisations such as the CPU and pipeline visualisations give an insight into the running of the processor (information about registers, memory etc. only complement this); high level visualisations take a look from a different perspective, examining how the algorithms written in assembly code are running.

The most significant aims of this project were to satisfy the needs of our user base, by providing an accessible, usable environment to work in, accommodating for both teaching and learning scenarios. In order to do this, communications with the user base were held, in particular with the module leader, in order to sure the project was moving in the right direction in order to satisfy these aims.

In order to create such a piece of software, a very careful eye had to be payed towards the design of the software. The design (and indeed the project as a whole) incorporated many different Software Engineering practices, such as actively trying to enforce loose coupling and high cohesion throughout the software, as well as use of multiple design patterns, including the Producer Consumer pattern, as well as a general listener pattern for the connections between the model and many views of the system. The design of this system was carried out with careful consideration, hence the multiple iterations of design before pursuing one through to the development stage of this project.

The brief for this project was to visualise an algorithm (or suite of algorithms) and so a lot of thought went into ensuring the visualisations were as easy to understand and effective as possible. Arguably the central visualisation of this system is the CPU visualisation and this was designed with the students in mind, via the design incorporating the processor block diagram which the students will be familiar with from their lectures. Furthermore, one of the main selling points with regards to the visualisations of this system is its generality. With respect to the high-level visualisations in particular, a simple system for adding new visualisations has been created; the user writes the algorithm in MIPS, adds the visual component (may not be necessary if a suitable visualisation is already available), then adds the appropriate JavaScript annotations to control the visualisations. Finally the visualisation needs to start listening to the model but this is a very simple process.

As well as managing the development of Simulizer, effective management of the team also had to take place. Different tools were used for this, such as Slack for easy communication, and Taiga for effective project management. Obviously tools alone wouldn't make a highly productive, strongly bonded team and this was achieved through an agreed system of decision making and also through mutual respect for each other within the team. This allowed all team members' ideas to be brought forward and as a result, Simulizer is a culmination of these ideas.

Simulizer has truly tried to innovate as a teaching and learning resource, through the use of visualisations of low level components/concepts related to processors/program execution that, to our knowledge, no other simulator (or other piece of software) has achieved previously. The innovation and general project success has been gauged by the satisfying of the requirements set out at the start of the project, but more so by the response received by the users of the system. The general response was that Simulizer is a useful and highly usable piece of software that succeeds at providing better educational interfaces than its competitors. Proof of this success can be shown through the advancement that Simulizer may actually be used as a resource in the teaching of Computer Systems & Architecture next year, which is a major achievement for the team and one that every member is incredibly proud of.
